#summary This page describes use cases of tSmooks component.

<wiki:toc max_depth="3" />

= Introduction =

*TSmooks* is a component, which provide [http://smooks.org Smooks] capabilities into [http://talend.com Talend]. You can find different possible use cases of *tSmooks* component on this page.


= Details =

==Required libraries==

You need these libraries for all use cases:

  # aopalliance.jar
  # commons-logging-1.1.jar
  # guice-2.0.jar
  # jaxen-1.1.1.jar
  # milyn-commons-1.2.2.jar
  # milyn-smooks-core-1.2.2.jar


==EDI-to-XML==

====Description====

We can use *tSmooks* to perform data transformation from EDI-message format to XML.

====Required libraries====

  # milyn-edisax-parser-1.2.2.jar
  # milyn-smooks-edi-1.2.2.jar


==CSV-to-XML==

====Description====

We can use *tSmooks* to perform data transformation from CSV-message format to XML.

====Required libraries====

  # milyn-smooks-csv-1.2.2.jar
  # opencsv-1.8.jar


==XML-to-XML==

You can perform XML-to-XML transformation with help of different technologies. To use them you will need some external libraries.

===Using of Freemarker===

====Description====

We can use *Freemarker* to perform XML-to-XML transformation.

====Required libraries====

  # freemarker-2.3.11.jar
  # milyn-smooks-javabean-1.2.2.jar
  # milyn-smooks-templating-1.2.2.jar

===Using of XSLT===

====Description====

We can use *XSLT* to perform XML-to-XML transformation.

====Required libraries====

  # milyn-smooks-templating-1.2.2.jar
  # milyn-smooks-javabean-1.2.2.jar


===Using of Groovy===

====Description====

We can use *Groovy* scripts to perform XML-to-XML transformation.

====Required libraries====

  # groovy-all-1.5.0.jar
  # milyn-smooks-scripting-1.2.2.jar
  # milyn-smooks-javabean-1.2.2.jar
  # milyn-smooks-templating-1.2.2.jar



You can find more information about tSmooks component in [http://soperadi-smooks.googlecode.com/files/SmooksComponents.pdf SmooksComponents.pdf]