#summary This page describes how you can make ZIP-archive with tSmooksInput component.

= Introduction =

This page describes how to make ZIP-archive of tSmooksInput component from SVN-repository with help of Ant. You need to do next steps and you will have the latest version of tSmooksInput in ZIP-archive named "tSmooksInput.zip"


= Details =

==Requirements==

  # [http://ant.apache.org/bindownload.cgi Ant] version 1.7.1.
  # [http://subversion.tigris.org Subversion] client compatible with your platform (version 1.6.5).
  # [http://subclipse.tigris.org/svnant.html SvnAnt] version 1.3.0.


==Ant installing==

  # Download [http://ant.apache.org/bindownload.cgi Ant].
  # You need only *bin* and *lib* directories. Copy them to directory you need.
  # Add the *bin* directory to your path.
  # Set the *ANT_HOME* environment variable to the directory where you installed Ant.


==Subversion client installing==

  # Download [http://subversion.tigris.org Subversion] client, which compatible with your platform.
  # Install Subversion with help of it documentation (if you need, of course).
  # Add the *bin* directory to your path.


==[http://subclipse.tigris.org/svnant.html SvnAnt] installing==

  # Download [http://subclipse.tigris.org/svnant.html SvnAnt].
  # Unzip archive to the directory you need.
  # Add the *lib* directory to your CLASSPATH.


==Making component ZIP-archive with Ant==

  # Create directory, where you want to make component archive.
  # Copy *buildZIP.xml* file to this directory.
  # Create subdirectory *lib*.
  # Copy SvnAnt libraries to this directory. You need: *svnant.jar, svnClientAdapter.jar, svnjavahl.jar, svnkit.jar*
  # Open command line in this directory and type "ant -f buildZIP.xml".
  
If you did all steps correctly, than you would have tSmooksComponent.zip file in your directory.